About 9 or 10 o'clock in the evening and a cold front
started coming through with the accompanying
thunderstorm and it started raining and storming
and we just knew we weren't going to be able to catch
a ride or worse that we would catch a ride that would
let us out at Hempstead or Navasota or someplace
like that and we'd get soaked. So about midnight
this big black Cadillac pulls up and stops and we
look and it's a black fella and Walter and I look at
each other and we've got to get out of this rain. So
we said, yes sir, where are you going? He said,
you're going to A&M, aren't you? We said, yes we
are. He said, jump in. So no questions, we didn't
ask a question, we jumped in and We talked on the way
up, and we found out that he was a graduate student
at Prairie View. And we talked about that, and we
passed Hempstead, and we passed Waller, and we
passed Hempstead. And we looked at each other,
because that's where Prairie View is. And we said,
weren't you going to let us out there at Prairie
View? He says, no. Y'all going to College Station?
I'm going to tell you to College Station. So he
drove us right up to Hart Hall and let us out. And we
said, well, we sure do thank you. You know, we shook
hands. He says, that's okay. He says, us Aggies got
to stick together. Oh, that's good. That's good.
That's good. Did you or anyone else you knew well
ever have a negative hitchhiking experience?
Or something? No, I don't recall. I've never heard
of any. I don't recall of one. Back to, we didn't
finish on describing the student body. Where
geographically in Texas, where did they come
from? Small towns or big cities or what? Mostly,
I would say the small towns.
Particularly rural towns, agrarian. towns and
although Houston, San Antonio, Dallas, Fort
Worth, and Beaumont, Beaumont is a big Aggie town,
they send a lot of students up here. My guess is that
it would be 50% those five or six big towns that I
mentioned and the rest small towns or no towns.
What was the key for an Aggie student to be accepted
by other Aggies? That he didn't take himself too
seriously, that he had a sense of humor, that he
could laugh at himself, that he had some good bull
stories. Was he expected to participate like
everybody else? Oh, absolutely. Actually, we
didn't expect. anything like that. It just
happened. It evolved. But the person who did not
avail himself of the benefit of the group stood out
like a sore thumb. And on rare occasions,
a two percenter would find his bags back sitting
outside his dorm door. And I saw it happen. Really?
Oh, yes. Did some of them, did they leave or did they
read the handwriting on the wall and change their
attitude?
You'd try to get them to change their attitude
before it ever got to that point. That was the last
resort. And I don't know of any, I knew of very few
this occurred to, but I don't know of any that
didn't take the hint and leave. Silver Taps. Do you
remember going to Silver Taps your first time? I
do. I do. Do you remember? It was the strangest,
saddest thing. It didn't happen very often
because we were only 6,000, 6,500 students. But it
would happen maybe once, twice a semester at the
most. Did everybody take it seriously? Very
seriously. And all the buildings around the inner
circle around Sully's statue and the flagpole and
the academic building. It went totally dark. All
right, after you all were married, did you go to
some silver taps? Yes, we did. Did you ever lose a
dear, a close friend while you were? No, I never had
that experience. I knew of people who did, but we
never had that experience. There were no
on-campus tragedies during your four years, were
there? I don't remember having heard of any. No. No
bus crashes and anything like that? No. The worst
thing that happened on campus was when we had the
terrible cold spell when we registered for
classes on the 30th of January, 1949, the
temperature dropped to seven degrees below zero
here. Six inches of snow on the ground, we were
standing in it to register as a piece of mess hall.
The OWL, which was the Southern Pacific Train from
Houston to Dallas, came through to let people off
at the train station, and a brake line froze,
condensation in the brake line, and the train
could not move. Now, we thought that was good bull,
but to Southern Pacific, it was a tragedy because
that train was sitting on the main line.
And I guess they just rerouted trains all over the
place. But it was a day and a half before they could
get that train out here. Now, how often did Aggies
ride the train? Very seldom. I did. once or twice as
a last resort, because I couldn't get a ride out of
Houston. And we'd catch a city bus down to Houston,
catch the train, I think, for two bucks, maybe two
and a half. Was there a Greyhound bus service then,
here? There was, I guess there was, but I don't
recall anybody ever writing it. I've never heard
anybody talk about writing it. I never thought of
it. Let's see. Muster. Do you remember going to
Muster when you were a student? Yes. Where was it
held? I went the first year. Muster was held in
Guyon Hall, as I recall. Do you remember the
routine? Did they call the Muster and light
candles? No, the candle services. had not come
about until Jack Fritz and his wife perfected that
in about in the 60s, I think. But they did call, and
pretty well did the student body go? The student
body went. And then we held it out in Kyle Field when
it got too big for guns. Was there a special speaker
at Muster on campus in those days? Always. Always.
A dignitary of some repute.
Not necessarily of academic repute. Political
types, former students, corporate presidents
who had done well, that kind of thing. What did, for
you at that time, what did Muster, what impression
did it make on you? What was its importance? Well,
the first year, Muster was new to me and I didn't
understand what it was all about. And while I was
here on campus, it didn't make that much of an
impression on me until many years later in life. I
became a religious muster dog. See, one of the
things that the former student association has
done this year that I think is a grievous blunder,
they have been paying the actual travel cost of the
muster speakers like when I went to Austin. They
paid my mileage. Oh, sure. They've cut that out. It
will save them a total of $12,000 out of a $6 million
budget. And every muster I've ever, I've done 26 of
them, every muster I've ever done, I have the
impression that the key thing that audience
wanted to hear the muster speaker talk about,
what's happening on campus today? What's going
on? What's important? Like in the last two years,
what about bonfire? And what this is going to do is
it's going to diminish the number of people that
will go from here to other places because they'll
say, hey, if I got to pay out of my pocket, I may not do
it. Like I'm going to El Paso, and we've got two
grandkids out there. And so, OK, I'll do that. But
last year, I did Charleston, South Carolina. Year
before that, Nashville. Year before that,
Colorado Springs. Year before that, Austin. And I
think that's not good economy on their part. Do you
mean that they'd cut it out for even going to
Charleston, South Carolina? Yep. Yep. No longer
will they pay travel expenses. Well, at the
Capital City A&M Club, when I was president and on
the board for years thereafter, we always paid out
of club funds. Mm-hmm. Now, there are some clubs
that are not big enough to do that. That's right.
And so the former students never reimbursed us.
No, no, I agree. And then y'all were responsible
for putting the person up for the night. That's
right. And which is easy. And their meals. But like
in Charleston, they only had about 60 people
there. And so they wouldn't have a budget. That's
hard for a little club. Yeah, and they couldn't do
it. Like when I went to Nashville, they were, hey,
most of us haven't been to College Station in a good
while. Tell us about it. And then what I love to
tell, I ask them, how are y'all doing up here? How is
it? And they said, it's great. We can now get Shiner
beer and Blue Bell ice cream in Nashville. Well,
I'm going to have to speak severely to Porter
Garner.
Somebody, I think, made a made a goofy decision
that that's not good economy. I like to think that I
have Porter's ear because he consults with me. Oh,
good, good, good. From time to time, not that
frequently, but. All right, let me go back.
Student indulgences. They drank beer and
whiskey. What were people smoking then? Were
Aggies smoking? Oh, yeah. What were they smoking?
They were smoking Lucky Strikes, Camels, and
Chesterfields. Did Aggie smoke cigars much?
Sophomores did at Yale practice, so they could
blow the smoke in the freshman's face. And there
wasn't that much cigar or pipe smoking going on.
Cigarettes, yes. And chewing tobacco or snuff?
I'm the only guy that I know of in my end of Hart Hall
that chewed tobacco. And I'd make my roommate
sick. I'd pull that big GI can in there and I'd spit
it in the can. But chewing tobacco was not a big
thing unless you were a baseball player. Oh, yeah,
yeah. Now, and you all had never heard of the drugs,
marijuana and heroin and all that? No, we didn't
know what it was. That's what I, all right. To us,
aspirin was a drug. Mm-hmm, mm-hmm. Did you ever go
to the quack shack? Were you ever, did you ever get
sick or? The what? The quack shack, the hospital.
Oh, yeah, I busted my knee up. on the track one time,
I was trying to make a handoff to Bob Hall, we were
practicing for the 880 relay, and Hall took off a
little too soon, and I stretched too far to get the
baton to it, and I hit that concrete curb, and just
tore my knee up real bad, and Bill Dayton, the
trainer, scrubbed it out with surgery, Soap and
put methionine on it. And I got this big red streak
coming up here. And he said, you got to go to the
hospital. So I went over there to see Mom Claghorn.
And penicillin had just been invented. So she
said, roll over and pull up your gown. And I did. And
she gave me a few shots of penicillin. In three
days, I was out of the hospital. And describe her
and her style of operating. the hospital i didn't
have that much direct contact with mom herself
there was a cute little nurse there that who
ministered to me and mom was she
was sweet but firm no nonsense she was kind of like
uh A pleasant version of Marjorie Maine, I'd say.
And she was in charge. There was no doubt that she
was in charge. Let's see. You didn't go to Junction
to summer camp or anything like that ever. Every
summer, even after you were married, did you go
back and work in Beaumont? Every summer, as soon as
I could get out of here. The nice thing about that,
These are distinguished student cards. And I have
one for every semester. I was here at A&M. And the
nice thing about a distinguished student card was
that if a prof says, OK, we're going to have a pop
quiz, you could stand up and say, Dr. So-and-so,
Professor So-and-so, I'm going to walk this
class. He'd say, all right. And this is your
get-out-of-jail-free card. And the other nice
thing about it was, if you were a distinguished
student, you had no grade below a B in that course,
you did not have to take a final exam. You had to take
a midterm, but not a final. I never took a final. And
that was the When I tell that to students season
A's, golly, they can't believe that. They never
heard of that. Did you make any grade that you then
considered low, any course?
Yeah, I made a B in. No C's and D's? No. Okay. No, I
never made a C. Okay. And you didn't compute. I was
disappointed with a B that I got. Nobody computed a
GPA then. You didn't know what your grade point
average was, did you? No. You got a transcript, and
it had on there the number of hours that you took and
the number of grade points that you got. And you
could figure up your own grade point average if you
wanted to. But nobody talked about it in the way
that they do today. All right. Evaluate the great,
the best, the finest, the most respected teachers
you had as you now think. Talk about some of those.
Who were some of those fine teachers?
I wish I'd had some warning on that.
John B. Longley. Johnny Longley. What did he
teach? He taught life insurance. He was the local
American General Life Insurance Company
representative here. He was highly respected in
the business community, and all of his students
loved him. Johnny was a World War II vet, and he'd
gotten his foot shot off in Europe. Another highly
respected prof was Joe Vincent. who taught
property and casualty insurance. These guys were
private individuals who helped the school out
because they had nobody with that kind of
expertise. Johnny had a degree, but it certainly
wasn't an education. And as you think about what
they taught now, as you evaluated it, it was high
quality, real world? They told us what we needed to
know about the subject matter at hand. And when you
went out into the real world, you found it worked.
It was exactly like they said it was. Today, I can
sit down and read a life insurance policy and a
property and casualty insurance policy just as
easily as I can read a novel based on what John B.
Longley and Joe Vincent taught me. And it hasn't
changed. And should identify for the person
typing this up that Joe Vinson was one of the
founders of what is now ANCO Insurance. It was
called Mitchell Vinson for a while. Yes. And then
it became ANCO as they acquired ownership of an old
company, Anderson. And he's in cahoots with Red
Cash. Yes, yes, yes. What about some other great
teachers and or counselors that you know? My, I'd
have to say my Bulltex prof, a captain, he was an Air
Force captain, and he encouraged me to apply for a
regular commission. I can't recall his name, but
he kind of mentored me through Air Force Bulltex.
If you... And another was... Ray Putnam, who
taught agricultural economics. And of course he
was also assistant track coach. And I had a course
in ag eco that I took from him and was very impressed
with his methodology. Was there anybody that you
would turn to for academic advice? What should I
take? What courses should I attempt this year or
next year? Who was your counselor? Didn't have
any.
I'm not aware of any that we had in the business
department because the curriculum was so narrow.
They had certain basic courses that you had to
take. And then there wasn't that much left over in
the way of electives. About how large was the
average section of a business course? How many
students? How many students? I'd say 20 to 25 at the
most. And what was your routine? Did you study just
about every day, every night? I took good notes. I
took shorthand in high school.
I would review those notes at night.
I would use the textbook if I knew that we were going
to get questions coming out of it or if I needed to
refer to the textbook to expand what we had gotten
in class. But what we got in class was practical
stuff. It was not theory. It was hands on, here is a
life insurance policy. If you're going to be in
insurance sales, well, these are the things
you've got to know about this policy. And here's
how you make out a life insurance application. You
can study all the theory in Cushing Library. It's
not going to tell you how to fill out a life
insurance application. Now, by the time you were,
say, a junior, what did you think your career was
going to be? What were you going to do, you hoped? I
was going to go with American General Life
Insurance Company. John B. had convinced me that
that was the way I ought to go. Headquartered in
Houston. Headquartered in Houston, headed up by
Mr. Gus Wertham. And John B. even arranged a visit
for me with Mr. Gus
in the spring of my senior year. Although they
already knew that We were at the height of the
Korean War, and they already knew that I'd been
nominated for a regular commission, was gonna go
that route. But John B. wanted Mr. Gus to see me, and
so that when I finished my tour of duty, that he
said, there's a spot for you here at American
General. And I'm telling you, that was some
sanctum sanctorum. You had to get through two
secretaries before you got into Mr. Gus's inner
office. Now, do you remember what building it was
in Houston then? It was in the Mel's Esperson
building in downtown Houston. Near the Rice
Hotel. Was he pleasant once you got in to chat with
him? Like talking to your grandfather. Oh, how
good, how good. And did he offer you a... a slot when
you got out? He said, there will be a place for you
here when you finish your Air Force tour of duty. He
didn't mention salary or anything? Oh, no. You
didn't talk about that. I was going to say, that
would have been, that would have been. That would
have been gauche. Who were the campus, great
campus personalities while you were here? Now,
the president when you got here was Gilchrist?
Or was it already, or was it? Tom Harrington was the
interim president. And then he became, Gilchrist
last year was I think the spring of 48, and then Tom
Harrington was the interim. And then he became the
president I think in the spring semester of 49. Did
you guys see Dr. Harrington much, you students?
Dr. Harrington was always around the campus. He
walked. He, you'd see him in the corridors. I don't
recall that he ever visited a class, but he knew
your, he knew your name. And I'd always see him
walking back and forth on campus from one building
to another. Did your students have a high regard
for him? Absolutely the best. What, who else was
around, the notables? Colonel Hayden L. Boatner.
Boatner was also visible. Now, he was here when you
got here? Yes. And he was the commandant? He was.
Now, he was not an Aggie by background, was he? He
was a West Pointer. Physically, he was what size?
Colonel Boatner was, I'd say, about 5'9", 5'10".
Slightly rotund.
Sparse hair. Don't remember the color of his eyes.
but I remember he was all business.
I remember one time he smiled at me when I was
sitting on the sidewalk outside of Guyon Hall
talking to a friend of mine and Colonel Boatner
comes walking up the sidewalk and I jumped up and I
hit a brace and said good afternoon Colonel
Boatner and he smiled. He could actually smile.
And Colonel Joe Davis, who was a deputy
commandant, and Joe Davis took over for Colonel
Boatner. Fighting Joe. Fighting Joe, different
kind of guy, accessible,
reachable. Boatner was distant. And nobody
would, y'all never thought about trying to play
any jokes on him? Oh yeah. Oh really, on Boatner? Oh
yeah. Such as? WTAW, Watch Texas Aggies Win, they
had a call-in request program for spinning
records. And at that time, Arthur Godfrey was very
popular. And he had a little ditty out called, Heat
Big Smoke But No Fire. And students would call it,
They'd get 10 requests a night for heat, big smoke,
but no fire. And I know it must have steamed
Boatner, being a West Porter and all. He was
stuffy. This is Cardinal Boatner speaking. And
everybody was supposed to face east and bow down.
Was Pinky around? Pinky? Yes, Pinky was around in
his 36 green Ford Coupe. You saw Pinky all over the
campus, every place. Now, were you all aware of
whether or not he was an Aggie employee? Yeah, we
knew that he was the official greeter
non-employee. And he was just kept on, like old
Uncle Mose was kept on the plantation. And
everybody made sure that Pinky was taken care of by
whatever means there was. The deans during your
era, who were they?
Well, Harrington was a dean. He'd been promoted by
the time I got here. Dean John Paul Abbott, dean of
arts and sciences.
I can't recall many of the deans outside my own
school. Then
Reveille. We had no Reveille here. Where was
Reveille? The Reveille was dead. No, but didn't
they have a Reveille 2 or 3 or 4? No. You're saying
there wasn't? There was none. Reveille 2 didn't
come along until many years later in the 60s.
I didn't know that. Go check the gravestones. down
there outside the... No, no, my astonishment, and
I'm not questioning you, my astonishment is that I
assumed that there had always been from Reveille 1
all the way through. No, once Reveille 1 died, I
don't know why there wasn't an immediate Reveille
2, but we had a dog that was kind of a favorite on
campus, but never occupied the the spot that
Rivoli did. Her name was Violet. She was a black
dog. Matter of fact, I've got a picture here. Yeah,
that's Violet with some stray dog. And the
outstanding thing about Violet, she was an
average-sized dog, but her paws were about as big
as horses' hooves. Monstrous. And she was a
friendly dog, and she'd wander through some
decent people's dorms. And we've met her here and
all, but she was not a rebel. Were you aware that
there were secret fraternities on the campus
then? I was aware of one called the True Texans.
And I was aware of some people who were alleged to
have been true Texans, but none within my
immediate sphere of influence. Did you ever hear
of the Stickers? No.
Okay, let's go back to track now. So sophomore year
for you and track, did it go well? It went very well.
We started out the year with our usual dual and
triangular meets. And we went to the border
Olympics. And I won the high hurdles there and
placed
third in the low hurdles. My lack of speed was
starting to catch up with me. I had technique and
power, but I didn't have speed. And the guys I was
running against in the low hurdles